new tutorial (#10)
simstack/Simstack-Documentation: docs/tutorials/dft_graphite/index.rst

######################
DFT convergence tests 
######################

In density functional theory (DFT) calculations, convergence tests of ENCUT and KPOINTS are crucial for 
obtaining accurate results. However, these tests are often neglected during the modeling phase since they 

> require the submission of many short-time jobs, which requires extensive expertise in scripting, and 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
require the submission of many short-time jobs, which requires extensive expertise in scripting and 
```

command-line execution to handle the I/O files, which might be an issue for new users. We address this 
drawback by using workflow tools to manage the DFT calculations, which automate the process of performing 
convergence tests and ensure that the calculations are performed correctly. This can help to improve the 

> accuracy and reliability of DFT results and prevent errors or inaccuracies from creeping into published research.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
accuracy and reliability of DFT results and prevent errors or inaccuracies out of published research.
```

Here we use SimStack's capabilities to calculate the properties of graphite with van der Waals corrections 
applied to the AB stacking structure. By employing the **WaNos**: Graphire, Mult-It, DFT-VASP, QE-DFT, and DB-Generator 
tools, we can effortlessly set up the graphite lattice parameters and select the perfect DFT method using VASP 
or Quantum Espresso code.

The raw data from the DFT calculation is automatically parsed and stored in a human-readable, lightweight 
database in `.yml` format, which can be accessed from GitHub Repos using `Google Colab <https://colab.research.google.com/>`_. With the help of 
libraries like matplotlib, seaborn, and others, users can quickly search and filter the data based on 
specific criteria, allowing them to identify trends and patterns in complex systems. Overall, the SimStack 
framework makes it easy for users to gain valuable insights into the properties of graphite.

.. important::

>    Please download all the WaNos for this project on :download:`Github <https://github.com/KIT-Workflows/Graphite-convergence-tests>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Please download all the WaNos for this project on :download:`Github <https://github.com/KIT-Workflows/Graphite-convergence-tests>`.
```

*************************************
In this workflow, we will be able to:
*************************************

- Determine the optimal cutoff energy and k-mesh in the Brillouin zone.
- Check the role and impact of the vdW correction when combined with GGA functionals.
- Compute the Graphite lattice parameters deviation compared with the experimental values.

*******************************************************************
Graphite Convergence Tests
*******************************************************************

The figures below show the Convergence Tests workflow for the Graphite system. It comprises four **WaNos** and the 
AdvancedFor loop control, where we can toggle the encut and kpoints parameters as we wish. The black arrows link the input 

> parameters of each WaNo; with this setup. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
parameters of each WaNo with this setup. 
```

   :width: 800

**Fig 3** *In Step 3, we set up the mandatory VASP code input files as detailed in its documentation* `DFT-VASP <https://github.com/KIT-Workflows/DFT-VASP/>`_.

.. figure:: /assets/graphite_4.png
   :width: 800

**Fig 4** *In Step 3, we set up the mandatory Quantum Espresso code input files as detailed in its documentation*  `DFT-QE <https://github.com/KIT-Workflows/DFT-QE>`_.

.. figure:: /assets/graphite_5.png
   :width: 800

**Fig 5** *In step 4, we carefully craft a lightweight and easy-to-read database in .yml format for the entire workflow or a custom one 
for a specific subset of the WaNos, making it much more convenient for everyone to access* `DB-Generator <https://github.com/KIT-Workflows/DB-Generator>`_.

It's worth noting that we have two Step 3 options. If you do not have a VASP license (which is required by the DFT-VASP **WaNo**), you can 
opt to use DFT-QE instead, which utilizes the Quantum Espresso code as its backend. This way, you can still run DFT calculations without 
any limitations. It will give you more flexibility in choosing which DFT **WaNo** you prefer to work with.

1. Python dependencies
######################

> To get this workflow up-running on your available computational resources, have the below libraries installed on Python 3.6 or newer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run this workflow on your available computational resources, you must have the libraries listed below installed on Python 3.6 or later.
```

- Atomic Simulation Environment (``ASE``).
- Python Materials Genomics (``Pymatgen``).
- ``glob``, ``os``, ``sys``, ``re``, ``yaml``. 
- ``Numpy``, ``matplotlib``.

2. Running this Workflow
##########################

> - Drag and drop the Mult-It **WaNo** from the top left menu to the SimStack canvas as showed in **Fig 1** and set the parameters.

Reviewer: Maybe it would be convenient to add a bit more description on setting the parameters (e.g. the WaNo when on the canvas should be double-clicked and then a menu shows on the right... ) given that the other steps are given in more detail.

Author: Thanks! I'll do it in the next few days!

- Drag and drop the AdvancedFor loop control below right, insert the Graphite **WaNo** inside it, and set the lattice parameters. 

- In the sequence, assign the `encut,kpoints` according to **Fig 2** .

- Drag and drop the DFT **WaNo** (VASP or QE) from the top left menu to the SimStack inside the AdvancedFor loop control. Set the fields you want to change.

- Drag and drop the DB-Generator **WaNo** from the top left menu below to AdvancedFor loop control, and name your database.

> - Name your workflow with `Ctrl+S`, and run it with `Ctrl+R` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Save and name your workflow with `Ctrl+S`, and run it with `Ctrl+R` command.
```

3. Outputs
###########

This workflow will generate *dB-Workflow* (you can rename as you wish) files, human-readable 
and lightweight databases in ``.yml`` format that can be easily accessed from GitHub Repos using Google Colab. These databases 
are packed with all the workflow inputs and key parameters extracted from OUTCAR (main VASP output file) or 
file.out (main Quantum Espresso output file), and you can use these keys to inquire about their values.

****************************************
Results Analysis (GitHub & Google colab)
****************************************

After running the workflow, we can download the databases to our GitHub repo and then quickly load them to our Google Colab 

> account, where we can access and analyze our database to make the most out of our DFT simulations. Below we explain to do so.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
account, where we can access and analyze our database to make the most out of our DFT simulations. We will explain how to do so below.
```

   encut_energies = np.column_stack((encut_energies, data_array[dim_array[0]-count_encut:dim_array[0], 2]))
   encut_energies = np.column_stack((encut_energies, data_array[dim_array[0]-count_encut:dim_array[0], 3]))
   encut_energies = np.column_stack((encut_energies, data_array[dim_array[0]-count_encut:dim_array[0], 4]))
   encut_energies = encut_energies[encut_energies[:,0].argsort()]
   
   # KPOINTS
   count_kpt = np.sum(data_array[:, 0] == data_array[0, 0])
   data_array = data_array[data_array[:,0].argsort()]
   
   # kpoints array
   k_energies = np.empty((0, 0))
   k_energies = np.append(k_energies, data_array[dim_array[0]-count_kpt:dim_array[0], 0])
   k_energies = np.column_stack((k_energies, data_array[dim_array[0]-count_kpt:dim_array[0], 1]))
   k_energies = np.column_stack((k_energies, data_array[dim_array[0]-count_kpt:dim_array[0], 2]))
   k_energies = np.column_stack((k_energies, data_array[dim_array[0]-count_kpt:dim_array[0], 3]))
   k_energies = np.column_stack((k_energies, data_array[dim_array[0]-count_kpt:dim_array[0], 4]))
   k_energies = k_energies[k_energies[:,2].argsort()]

> The line 16, you have to provide the name of your database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Line 16 requires you to enter the name of your database.
```
